Hey guys, welcome back to the course, and welcome
to the new section. We're going to talk in this section about MVPs.
First off, we're going to talk about MVPs,
what they mean in definition, and how the lean startup
framework wants us to think about them.
Then, after we're done talking about the theory, we'll talk about how do MVPs get used in actuality by product managers.
Now, MVP - if you don't know this - stands for
Minimum Viable Product. The term was originally coined in a
book called The Lean Startup framework written by Eric Ries,
and, for the most part, it's extremely popular. Startups
nowadays often follow this religiously, and even
big companies have taken a lot of the core concepts
and integrated it into their workflow.
All right, let's look at the actual definition of MVP as the book
says it, pull it up on the screen, you guys can read it.
.
All right, and we're back.
That was ridiculous and I'm sorry for how long that definition is.
I don't know why it's so bloated.
MVP just means the smallest amount of a proposed product
that you can build, push out there, and then
get real feedback from users about
whether or not they are actually interested in it.
These are primarily designed to test hypotheses
and test assumptions that you have.
Now, if you want to be more accurate you would call an MVP
"an MVP experiment" because, actually, an MVP
is a process, not necessarily a thing, and
that process is very much like a science experiment.
You'll start with things like assumptions, a hypothesis,
a minimum criteria for success, and then you'll
go about testing your hypothesis in a very scientific,
measured way. MVP experiments rely heavily
on a concept called "validated learning" and they
draw the distinction between learning and validated
learning. Validated learning is anything you learn
from a customer that's done in a test environment,
in a way that you know for a fact you're not biasing your customer,
and you're studying them in an environment
where they have no undue pressure and they act naturally.
Learning, on the other hand, is just pretty much
anything else you do that's not designed like an experiment,
not done well, and you can't trust the results you get from it.
Think of MVPs in the metaphor of walking in a park,
and you're on a path, and you reach a fork in the
road, except fork is three different ways you can go,
and you don't know where to go.
Why are you doing this?
Why do people hike in general? Probably because they love trees.
Now, in this metaphor, you have to pick which path to go down.
And I'll give you a little bit more information:
right at that intersection,
there is a town, and this town has people, and these people
presumably know which path is the right one to take.
So how do you decide?
Well, most people would say "Ask someone in the town,"
but actually, with an MVP experiment,
you don't want to ask the town's people. Why?
Because even if they swear that they know which path it is,
we don't know for 100% certainty that
they have any idea what they're talking about.
Can you really trust those town's people
with their quaint way of life?
No, you can't, because it's entirely subjective and qualitative.
So the only way to actually tell for sure is to walk down
each individual path until you can see enough
of the path to know if it's the right direction.
With an MVP experiment,
it is the art of walking down those paths, putting in
the minimum amount of effort to get to the point
where you can say "Ah, wrong path." If you were going to
build a website that sold shoes online and you weren't
sure if people wanted to buy your shoes online,
what would you do?
Would you go all in, build out a fancy website, hire
some people to program, and buy some inventory, which
is, this is the equivalent of just sprinting down one path,
or would you try to do the absolute minimum
just to figure out first whether or not this is the right path,
and whether or not people want to buy your shoes online?
That's actually a classic example of the MVP.
If you guys are familiar with Zappos, the way that they
started was exactly what I'm talking about.
They wanted to know if people would buy shoes online, and this is back in the day when buying shoes online was kind of crazy,
so what they did is they made a very basic web site,
they didn't buy any inventory whatsoever,
they walked across the street to a shoe store, took photos
of the shoes, and then when people bought them,
they physically walked over, bought the shoes, and then shipped them. Once that happened enough, they knew this is the right path,
they knew that this was validated. Now, a common misconception with MVPs is that an MVP is some sort of
prototype, and when I say MVP it means, you know, a really basic version of what you're trying to build, and that's just not the case.
MVPs are about idea validation at the end of the day,
and what it takes to get to that point,
well, that's your MVP. In most situations, you can
actually get away with not building much of anything.
actually get away with not building much of anything,
just anything you can use to figure out whether or not
people are interested in what you're about to build.
The other core reason we make MVPs is that
we use them as a way to mitigate risk.
If you had the option of building a big fancy platform
that created forms, or just using a Google Form
or a basic platform to validate your idea beforehand,
why wouldn't you go with the faster, cheaper, easier
option? By picking that simpler version,
by walking only partway down the path,
we save an enormous amount of resources: time resources,
money resources, and things like opportunity cost.
The last thing I'll say about MVPs in the actual lean framework
is that there is a very strong focus
on speed, and that's where the mantra of "Fail fast" comes from.
If you can fail fast and build your MVP experiments,
run them quickly, then you can run more MVP experiments
in the same amount of time and collect exponentially more data,
which means that you're more likely
to find a product or find a feature that fits, works, and is successful.
All right, guys.
Maybe that sounds familiar to you, maybe it doesn't.
That is the academic way of explaining MVPs.
In the next lecture, we're going to talk more about the
relationship between product managers and MVPs.
MVPs are different depending on who you are as a product manager and what company you are working for.
Alright. See you guys in the next lecture.